1.Tom plays,fights and hides.
"Tom!"
No answer. 
"what's wrong with that boy, I wonder?You,TOM!"
No answer.
The old lady pulled her spectacles down and looked over them about the room,then she put them up and looked out under them.
She seldom or never looked through them for so small a thing as a boy. they were her state pair,the pride of her heart, and were built for "style," not service.
She could have seen through a pair of stove lids just as well. she looked perplexed for a moment, and then said, not fiercely but still loud enough for the furniture to hear:
"well, I guess if I grab hold of you I'll..."
She did not finish, for by this time she was bending down and punching under the bed with the broom, and so she needed breath to punctuate the jabs with. she found nothing but the cat.
    "I never did see anything like that boy!"
    she went to the open door and stood in it and looked out among the tomato vines and jimson weeds that constitued the garden. No Tom. So she lifed up her voise at an angle for 
She found nothing but the cat.
"Inever did see anything like that boy!"
She went to the open door and stood in it and looked out among the tomato vines and Jimsom weeds that constituted the garden.No Tom. So she lifted up her voice at an angle calculated for distance, and shouted:
"Y-O-U-U, TOM!"
     there was a slight noise behind her and she turned just in time to seize a  small boy by the slack of his shirt and arrest his flight.
    "There! I might have thought of that closet. What have you been doing in there?"
    "Nothing."
    "Nothing!Look at your hands. And look at your mouth. What is that stuff?" 
    "I don't know, Aunt."
    the switch hovered in the air; the peril was desperate! 
    "My! look behind you, Aunt!"
    The old lady turned round,and snatched her skirts out of danger. the lad fled , on the instant, climbed up the high board fence, and disappeared over it. His Aunt Polly stood surprised for a moment, and then broke into a gentle laugh.
    "hang the boy, can't I ever learn anything out for him by this time? But old fools are the biggest fools there are. an old dog can't learn new tricks, they say. But my goodness, he never plays the same trick two days in a row,so how am I to know  what's coming?
    he appears to know just how long he can torment me before I get my anger up, and he knows if he can put me off for a minute or make me laugh, I can't hit him. I'm not do my duty by that boy. he's full of  the Old Devil, but he's my own dead sister's boy, poor thing, and I hate whipping him. Every time I hit him my old heart almost breaks, and every time I forgive him my conscience blames me. he'll play hooky this afternoon, and I'll just be obliged to make him work Saturdays,when all the boys are having a holidays, but he hates work more than anything else,and I've got to do some of my duty by him, or I'll be the ruin of the child."
   Tom did play hooky, and he had a very good time. He got back home barely in time to help Jim,the small black boy, sawed the next day's wood and split the kindling before supper. At least, he was there in time to tell his adventure to Jim while Jim did three-fourths of the work. Tom's younger brother (or rather, half brother),Sid, was already through with his part of the work, for he was a quiet boy, and not have adventure, troublesome ways.
     While Tom was eating his supper, and stealing sugar as the opportunity offered, Aunt Polly was wondering whether Tom had disobeyed her and been to the river.  had sewn up his shirt at the neck in order to prevent him from taking it off and swimming.
    "Tom, it was fairly warm in school, wasn't it?Didn't you want to go swimming ,Tom?"
    Tom felt a little frightened and uneasy. He searched Aunt Polly's face, but it told him nothing. So he said:
    "No, aunt, well, not very much."
    
    "but you aren't too warm now, though." Tom had planned what to say if his aunt should ask too many question"
    "Some of us pumped water on our heads. Mine's damp  yet. See?"
    Aunt Polly was upset to think she had overlooked that bit of circumstantial evidence ,and missed a trick. Then she had a new inspiration : 
    "Tom, you didn't have undo your shirt collar where I sewed it ,to pump water on your head, did you? Unbutton your jacket!"
    He opened his jacket. His shirt collar was securely sewed.
    "Bother!Well, go along with you. I was sure you'd played hooky and been swimming. But I forgive you,Tom."
   She was half sorry her wisdom had gone wrong ,and half glad that Tom had stumbled into obedient conduct for once.
   But Sid said:" well, now, if I didn't think you sewed his collar with white thread, but it's black." 
   "why, I did not sew it with white!Tom!"
    But Tom did not wait for the rest. As he went out the door he said: 
    "Sid, I'll lick you for that."
    In a safe place Tom examined two large needles which were thrust into the lapels of his jacket, and had thread bound about them. One needle carried white thread and the other black. He said:
    "She never would have noticed if it hadn't been for sid. I wish she'd stick to one or other. I can't keep it straight. But I'll bet you I'll beat Sid for that."
    Within two minutes,or less, he had forgotten his troubles. Not because they were less heavy and bitter to him than a man's are to a man, but because a new and powerful interest drove them out of his mind for the time, just as men's misfortunes are forgotten in the excitement of new enterprises.
    this new interest was a valued novelty in whistling , which he had just acquired,and he was suffering to practice it undisturbed. It consisted of a peculiar birdlike turn, a sort of liquid warble, produced by touching the tongue to the roof of the mouth at short intervals in the midst of the music . the reader probably remembers how to do it, if he has ever been a boy.
    Diligence and attention soon gave him the knack of it, and he strode down the street with his mouth full of gratitude . he felt much as an astronomer feels who has discovered a new planet.
    a stranger was before him, a boy a shade larger than himself. a newcomer of any age or either sex was an impressive curiosity in the poor little shabby village of St.Petersburg. This boy was well dressed, too,well dressed on a weekday. this was simply amazing . his hat was a dainty thing, hes close-buttoned blue cloth roundabout was new and natty,and so were his pantaloons. He had shoes on, and it was only Friday.
    He had a citified air about him that ate into Tom's vitals. The more Tom stared at the plendid marvel, the higher he turned up his nose at his finery and the shabbier and shabbier his own outfit seemed to be.
    If one moved, the other moved, but only sidewise ,in a circle. they kept face to face and eye to eye all the time. Finally,Tom said:
    "I'd like to see you try it."
    "well, I can do it."
    "No, you can't,either."
    "Yes, I can."  
    "No, you can't"
    "I can."
    "You can't"
    "Can!"
    "Can't!"
    There was an uncomfortable pause. Then Tom said:
    "what's your name?"
    "It isn't any of your business, maybe."
    "Well, I guess I'll make it my business."
    "Well, why don't you."
    "If you say 'much', I will."
    "Much, much,much. There now."
    "Oh,you think you're mighty smart, don't you? I could lick you with one hand tied behind me, if I wanted to."
    "well, why don't you do it? You say you can do it"
    "Well,I will, if you fool with me. Oh, what a hat!"
    "You can knock that hat if you don't like it. I dare you to knock it off, and anybody that'll take a dare will suck eggs.
    There was another pause,and more  eyeing and sidling around each other. Presently  they were shoulder to shoulder. Tom said:
    "Get away from here!"
    "Go away yourself!"
    "I won't."
    So they stood pushing each  other with might and main, looking with hot hate in their eyes. But neither could push the other over. After struggling until both were tired, they stopped and Tom said:
    "You're a coward. I'll tell my big brother on you, and he can thrash you with his little finger, and I'll make him do it, too."
    "what do I care for your big brother? I've got a brother that's bigger than he is, and what's more, he can throw him over that fence, too."(Both brothers were imaginary.)
    "That's a lie."
    "Your saying so doesn't make it so."
    Tom drew a line in the dust with his big toe, and said:
    "I dare you step over that, and I'll lick you till you can't stand up."
    The new boy stepped over promptly, and said:
    "Now let me see  you do it."
    "Don't crowd me; you'd better look out."
    "Well, you said you'd do it. Why don't you do it?"
    "Well, for two cents I will do it."
    The new boy took broad coppers out of his pocket and held them out with a laugh. Tom struck them to the ground.
    In an instant both boys were rolling and tumbling in the dirt, gripped together like cats; and for the space of a minute they tugged and tore at each other's noses, and covered themselves with dust and glory.
    At last through the dust of battle Tom appeared,sitting on the new boy and striking him with his fists.
    "Scream enough!" said Tom.
    The boy only struggled to free himself. He was crying, mainly from rage.
    "Scream enough!" Tom repeated, and the pounding went on.
    At last the stranger got out a smothered, "enough!" and Tom let him get up and said:
    "Now,that'll teach you. You'd better look out who you're fooling with next time."
    The new boy went off brushing the dust from his clothes, sobbing,snuffing,and occasionally looking back and shaking his head and threatening what he would do to Tom the next time he caught him out. To witch  Tom responded with jeers. As soon as his back was turned the new boy snatched up a stone, threw it and hit Tom between the shoulders. Then he turned tail and ran like a deer.
    Tom chased the traitor home, and thus found out where he lived. He then held a position at the gate for some time, daring the enemy to come outside, but the enemy only made faces at him through the window and declined.
    at last the enemy's mother appeared, and called Tom a bad, vicious,vulgar child, and ordered him away.  So he went away, but he said he would be waiting for that boy.
    He got home pretty late that night, and when he climbed cautiously in at the window he uncovered an ambush in the person of his aunt. When she saw the condition his clothes into captivity at hard labor set in its firmness.
    Saturday morning came,and all the summer world was bright and fresh, and brimming with life. There was a song in every heart,and if the heart was young. music issued at the lips. There was cheerfulness in every face. and a spring in every step. The locust trees were in bloom, and the fragrance of the blossoms filled the air.
    Tom appeared on the sidewalk with a bucket of whitewash and a long-handled brush.He surveyed the fence, and all gladness left him and a deep melancholy settled down upon his spirit. Thirty yards of board fence nine feet high!
   sighing,he dipped his brush and passed it along the topmost board, repeated the operation, did it again. compared the insignificant whitewashed streak with the far-reaching continent of unwashed fence, and sat down a tree-box discouraged .
    Jim came skipping out at the gate with a tin pail, and singing "Buffalo Gals." bringing water from the town pump had always been hateful work in tom's eyes before,but now it did not seem so.  He remembered that there was company at the pump.  White, and black boys and girls were always there , waiting their turns,resting,trading playthings, quarreling and fighting. And he remembered that,although the pump was only a hundred and fifty yards off,Jim never got back with a bucket of water under an hour, and even then somebody generally had to go after him.Tom said:
    "Say, Jim, I'll fetch the water if you'll whitewash some."
    Jim shook his head and said:
    "I can't , Master Tom. You old aunt told me not to stay fooling around with anybody. She said for me to go along ad attend to my own business. She declared that she would attend to the whitewashing."
    "Oh, never mind what she said , jim. that's the way she always talks. give me the bucket . I won't be gone only a minute. she'll never know."
     " Oh, I don't dare, Master Tom . your old aunt, she'd tear me head off .  indeed she would."
      " her! she never licks anybody. just hits them over the head with her thimble, and who cares for that, I'd like to know. she talks a lot, but talk doesn't hurt. at least, it doesn't if she doesn't cry. Jim, I'll give you a white alley." 
       Jim began to waver.
       " white alley, Jim!"
       "my! that's a mighty gay marble, I tell you! but master Tom, I'm powerfully afraid of that old lady."
       " and besides, if you will I'll show you sore toe."
       Jim was only human, this attraction was too much for him. he put down his pail, took the white alley, and bent over the toe with absorbed interest while the bandage was being unwound .
         In another moment Jim was flying down the street with his pail and a tingling rear, Tom  was whitewashing with  vigor, and Aunt Polly was retiring from the field  with a slipper in her hand and triumph in her eye.
        but Tom's energy did not last. he began to think of the fun he had planned for this day, and his sorrows multiply. soon the free boys would come tripping  along on all sorts of expeditions, and they would make a world of fun of him for having to work. the very thought of it burned him like fire.
        he got out his worldly wealth and examined it; bits of toys, marbles, and trash. they was enough to buy an exchange of work, maybe, but not half enough to buy so much as half an hour of pure freedom. so he returned his straitened means to his pockets and gave up the idea of trying to buy the boys.  at this dark and hopeless moment he had an idea--- a glorious idea.
      he took up his brush and went calmly to work. Ben Rogers hove in sight
presently, the very boy of all boys, whose ridicule he had been dreading. he was eating an apple, and giving a long, melodious whoop, at intervals, followed by a deep-toned ding-dong-dong, ding-dong-dong, for he was pretending to be a steamboat.
     as he drew near, he lessened speed, took the middle of the street, learned far over to starboard and rounded to with big motions, for he was imitating the Big Missouri, and considered himself to be drawing nine feet of water. he was boat and captain and engine bells combined .
      with his arms he began to imitate the motions of the steamboat's  paddlewheel, making big circles . Tom went on whitewashing and paid no attention to the steamboat. Ben stare a moment and then said:
        "Hey! You've got trouble, don't you?" 
       No answer. Tom surveyed his last touch with the eye of an artist, then he gave his brush another gentle sweep, and inspected the result as before.  Ben came nearer. Tom's mouth watered for the apple, but he stuck to his work. Ben said:
       " Hello, old chap, you 've got to work, hey?"
       "why, it's you, Ben! I wasn't noticing."
        "say, I'm going swiming. don't you wish you could?but of course you'd rather work, wouldn't you? of course you would!"
       Tom contemplated the boy a bit, and said:
      " what do you call work?
      "why, isn't that work?"
      Tom went back to his whitewashing, and answered carelessly:
       "Well, maybe it is, and maybe it isn't. all I know is that it suits Tom Sayer."
      "oh,come, now. you don't mean to  act like you like it?"
      the brush continued to move.
      "like it? well, I don't see why I shouldn't like it. does a boy get a chance to whitewash a fence every day?"
       that put the thing in a new light. Ben stopped nibbling his apple. Tom swept his brush daintily back and forth, stepped back to note the effect, added a touch here and, and criticized the effect again. Ben was watching every move and getting more and more interested, more and more absorbed. presently he said:
      "say, tom, let me whitewash a little."
      Tom considered, and was about to agree; but he altered his mind.
"No, no; you see, Aunt Polly's awfully particular about this fence, right here on the street, you know; but if it was the back fence, I wouldn't mind and she wouldn't yes, she's awfully partucular this fence. It's got to be done very carefully. I guess there isn't one boy in a thousand, maybe two thousand, who can do it the way it's got to be done."
       "No, is that so? Oh, come , now. let me just try. only just a little. I'd let you, if you were me, tom."
"ben, I'd like to, honest. but Aunt polly wouldn't like it. jim wanted to do it, but she wouldn't let him. sid wanted to do it, and she wouldn't let sid. now don't you see how I'm fixed?If you were to tackle this fence and anything was to happen to it..."
      "oh, I'll be just as careful. Now let me try. Say, I'll give you the core of my apple."
      "well, here; no, Ben, now don't . I'm afraid..."
      " I'll give you all of it!"
      Tom gave up the brush with reluctance in his face, but ease in his heart. while ben worked and sweated in the sun, the retired artist sat on a barrel in the shade close by, ate his apple, and planned the slaughter of more innocents.
      there was no lack of material. Boys arrived frequently. they came to jeer, but remained to whitewash.
        by the time Ben was tired out , Tom had traded the next chance to Billy Fisher for a kite, in good repair, and when he played out, Johnny Miller bought in for a dead rat and a string to a swing it with; and so on and so on, hour after hour. and when the middle of the afternoon came, from being a poor poverty- stricken boy in the morning, Tom was literally rolling in wealth. He had, besides the things before mentioned, twelve marbles , part of a jew' sharp , a piece of blue bottle glass to look through, a spool cannon, a key that wouldn't unlock anything, a fragment of chalk, a glass stopper of a decanter, a tin soldier, a couple of tadpoles, six firecrackers,  a kitten wit only one eye, a brass doorknob, a dog collar (but no dog) , the handle of a knife, four pieces of orange peel, and a wornout old window sash. he had  had a nice, good, idle time and plenty of company, and the fence had three coats of white-wash on it! if he hadn't run out of whitewash, he would have bankrupted every boy in the village.
        Tom said to himself that it was not such a bad world, after all. he had discovered a great law of human action, without knowing it. Namely, that in order to  make a man or a boy covet a thing, it is only necessary to make the thing difficult to attain. if he had been a great and wise philosopher, like the writer of whatever a person is obliged to do. and this would help him understand why constructing artifical flowers of performing on a treadmill is work, while rolling tenpins or climbing Mont Blanc is only amusement.
        the boy mused awhile over the substantial change which had taken place in his worldly circumstances, and then turned toward headquarters to report.
 2.Busy at war and love.
       Tom presented himself before  Aunt polly, who was sitting by an open window in a pleasant reaward apartment, which was bedroom, breakfast room, dining room, and library combined. the summer air, the restful quiet, the odor of the bees had had their effect, and she was nodding over he knitting;  for she had no company but the cat, and it was asleep in her lap. her spectacles were propped up on her gray head for safety. she had though that of course Tom had deserted long ago, and she wondered at seeing him place himself in her power again in this bold way.
        "may I go out and play now, Aunt?"
       " what, already? How much have you done?"
       " It's all done, Aunt."
        "tom, don't lie to me. I can't bear it. "
        " I'm not lying, Aunt. It is all done."
         Aunt polly could hardly believe this so she went out to see for herself. when she found the entire fence whitewashed. her astonishment was almost unspeakable. 
           "well, I never! you can work when you have a mind to, Tom. but it's powerfully seldom that you do try. well, go along and play, but mind you get back sometime in a week." 
       she was so overcome by the splendor of his achifvement  that she took him into the closet and selected an apple and gave to him.
         then he  skipped out, and saw Sid just starting up the outside stairway that led to the back rooms on the second floor. clods were handy and the air was full of them in a twinkling. they raged around Sid like a hailstorm; and before Aunt Polly could come to the rescue, six or seven clods had taken personal effect, and Tom was over the fence and gone.
       There was a gate, but as a general thing he was too crowded for time to make use of it. his soul was at peace, now that he had settled with Sid for calling attention to his black thread and getting him into trouble.Tom skirted the block, and came the block, and came round into a muddy alley that led by the back of aunt's cow stable. he presently got safely beyond the reach of capture and punishment, and hastened toward the public square of the village, where two "military" companies of boys had met for confict.
          Tom was general of one of these armies. Joe Harperf (a bosom friend) general of the other. these two commanders sat together on a hill and comducted the field operations by orders delivered through aides- de - camp. Tom's army won a great victory, after a long and hard-fought  battle. then the dead were counted, prisoners exchanged, the terms of the next disagreement agreed upon, and the day for the necessary battle appointed. after which, the armies fell into line and marched away, and Tom turned homeward alone.
         as he was passing by the house where Jeff Thatcher lived, he saw a new girl in the garden, a lovely little blue-eyed creature with two long tails of yellow hair, a white summer dress, and embroidered pantalettes. 
       a certain Amy Lawrence vanished out of his heart and left not even a memory of herself behind. he had thought he loved her. he had been months winning her. she confessed hardly a week ago. he had been the happiest and the proudest boy in the world for only seven short days, and here in one instant of time she had gone out of his heart like a casual stranger whose visit is done.
      he worshiped this new angel  with secret eyes till he saw that she had discovered him; then he pretended he did not know she was present, and began to show off in all sorts of absurd boyish ways, in order to win her admiration. he kept up this grotesque foolishness for some time, but by the by, while he was in the middle of some dangerous gymnastic performaces, he glanced aside and saw that the little girl was turning her way toward the house.
        Tom came up to the fence and leaned on it , grievingand hoping she would stay yet a while longer. she halted a monet on the steps and then moved toward the door. Tom gave a great sigh as she put her foot on the threshold.but his face lit up, right away, for she tossed a pansy over the fence a moment before she disappeared. 
          the boy ran around and stopped within a foot or two of the flower, and then shaded his eyes with his hand and began to look down the street as if he had discovered something of interest going on in that derection. presently he picked up a straw adn began trying to balance if on his nose, with his head tilted far back; adn as he moved form side to side, he edged nearer toward the pansy. 
        finally, his bare foot rested upon it, his open toes closed upon it, and he hopped away with the treasure and disappeared round the corner. 
        he could button the flower inside his jacket , near his heart, or near his stomach, possibly , for he was not much posted in anatomy.  
         all through supper his spirits were so high that his aunt wondered why. he took a good scolding about hitting Sid with the dirt clods, but did not seem to mind it in the least. he tried to steal sugar under his aunt's very nose, adn got his knuckles rapped for it. he said:
         "Aunt, you don't whack Sid when he takes sugar."
       " well, Sid doesn't torment a person the way you do. you'd always be into that sugar if I wasn't watching you."
         presently she stepped into the kitchen, adn Sid reached for the sugar bowl. but Sid's fingers slipped , adn the bowl dropped adn broke. Tom was in joy. in such joy that he even controlled his togue and kept silent. he said to himself that he would not speak a word, even when his aunt came in, but would sit perfectly sitll till she asked who did the mischied. and then he would tell , and there would be nothing so good in the world as to see that pet model get into trouble.
        He was so full of hope that he could hardly hold himself when the old lady came back adn stood above the wreck discharging lightening bolts of wrath from over her spectacles.
         He said to himself, " now it's coming!" and the next instant he was sprawling on the floor! the potent palm was uplifted to strike again when Tom cried out:
          " hold on, now, what are you hitting me for? Sid broke it!"
        Aunt polly paused, perplexed, and Tom looked at her for healing pity. but when she got her tongue again , she only said: " Hum! well, I'm sure you deserved it. No doubt you wer in some mischief when I wasn't around".
       then her conscience got to her, and she yearned to say something kind and loving, but she judged that this would be taken as a confession that she had been in the wrong, and discipline wouldn't let her do that. so she kept silent, and went about her housework with a troubled heart.
      Tom sulked in a corner and made a big show of his woes. he knew that in her heart his aunt was on her knees to him. he knew that a yearning glance fell upon him, now and then , through tearful eyes, but he refused recongnition of it.
       he pictured himself lying sick unto death and his aunt bending over him, begging for one little forgiving word, but he would turn his face to the wall and die without saying that word. Ah, how would she feel then? And from the river, dead with his curls all wet and his sore heart at rest. how she would throw herself upon him, and how her tears would fall like rain, and her lips pray to God to give her back her boy and she would never abuse him any more! but he would lie there, cold and white, and make no sign , a poor little sufferer. he was so affected by these dreams that he had to keep on swallowing , he was so likely to choke; and his eyes swam  in the tears, which overflowed when he winked, and ran down from the end of his nose. 
         he was enjoying his sorrow so  much that any cheerfulness was unwelcome. when his cousin Mary danced in, all alive with the joy of seeing home again after an age-long visit of one week to the country, he got up and moved in clouds and darkness out at one door as she brought song and sunshine in at the other.
        he wandered far away from the accustomed haunts of boys and sought lonely places that were in harmony with his spirit. a log raft on the river invited him, and he seated himself on its outer edge and gazed at the wide river, wishing, the while, that he could only be drowned all at once and unconsiously, without suffering the usual pains.
      then he thought of his flower. he got it out, wrinkled and dried, and it mightily increase his dismal feeling. 
     he wondered if she would pity him if she knew. , and would she cry , and wish that she had a right to put her arms around his neck and comfort him?
or would she turn coldly away like the hollow world? Tom sat on the raft and thought about the new girl for a long time. at last he rose up sighting and  left in the darkness. 
      about half past nine or ten o'clock he came along the deserted street to where the  Adored unknown lived. he paused a moment; no sound fell upon his listening ear. a candle was casting a dull glow upon the curtain of a second-story window. was the sacred presence there?
     he climbed the fence , walked over to the house, and stood under that window. he looked up at it long, adn with emotion. then he laid him down on the ground under it, disposing himself upon his back, with his hands clasped upon his breast and holding his poor wilted flower.
       and thus he would die, out in the cold world, no loving face to head in pity over him when the great agony came. and thus she would see him when she looked out upon the glad morning , and , oh! would she drop one little tear upon his poor, lifeless form?
      the window went up, a maidservant's ugly voice disturbed the holy calm, and a deluge of water drenched the prone martyr'[s remains!
      the drenched hero sprang up, went over the fence and shot away in the gloom.
      not long after, as Tom , all undressed for bed, was surveying his drenched garment by the light of a tallow dip, Sid woke up. but if he had any dim idea of making any refences he thought better of it and held his peace, for there was danger in Tom's eye. Tom turned in without the added trouble of prayer, and Sid made mental note of the omission.
  3.Tom meets  Becky.
    Monday morining found Tom Sawyer miserable. Monday morning always found him so, because it began another week's slow suffering in school.
       Tom laid thinking . Presently it occurred to him that he wished he were sick; then he could stay home from school. here was a vague possibility. he searched his system. no ailment was found, and he investigated  again. 
       This time he thought he could detect flu symptoms , and began to encourage them with considerable hope. but they soon grew feeble, and died away.he reflected further.
      suddenly he discovered something. one of his upper front teeth was loose. this was lucky. he was about to groan as a starter to his performance, when it occurrred to him that if he said so his aunt would pull it out, and that would hurt. so he thought he would hold the tooth in reserve for the preseit and seek further.
      then he remembered hearing the doctor tell about a certain thing that laid up a patient for two or three weeks and threatened to make him lose a finger. so the boy eagerly drew his sore toe from under the sheet  and held it up for inspection. but now he did not know the necessary symptoms. however, it seemed well worthwhile to chance it, so he began graning loudly. but Sid slept on, unconscious.
      Tom groaned louder and gancied that he began to feel pain in the toe but Sid still slept. finally Tom got aggravated. he called, "Sid, Sid!" and shook him. this worked well, and Tom began to groan again. Sid yawned, stretched, and then began to stare at Tom. Tom went on groaning.
        "Tom! say, Tom!" No answer. "here , Tom!Tom!Tom! what's matter,Tom?" and he shook him and looked in his face anxiously. Tom moaned out:
      "oh, don't Sid. don't shake me."
       "why, what's the matter, Tomm? I must call auntie."
      "No, never mind. It's be over soon,maybe. don't call anybody."
      " but I must! don't groan so, Tom, it's awful. how long have you been this way?"
       "hours. ouch! oh, don't move around so much, Sid, you'll kill me."
          Tom, why didn't you wake me sooner?Oh, Tom, don't! It make my flesh crawl to hear you. Tom, what is the matter?" 
         "I forgive you everything, Sid. (groan.) everything you're ever done to me. when I'm gone..."
        " Oh, Tom, you aren't dying, are you? don't Tom, oh,don't. maybe..."
         "I forgive everybody, Sid. (groan.) tell them so. and, Sid, you give my window sash and my cat with one eye to that new girl that has come to town, and tell her..."
       But Sid had snatched his clothes and gone. Tom was suffering in reality, now, so handsomely was his imagination working. his groans had gathered quite a genuine tone.
        Sid flew downstairs. 
        "Oh, Aunt Polly, come! Tom's dying!"
        "dying!"
        "yes. come quickly!"
        "rubbish! I don't believe it."
        but she fled upstairs, nevertheless, with Sid and Mary at her heels. and her face grew white, too, and her lips trembled. when she reached the bed she gasped out:
         "you, Tom! Tom, what's the matter with you?"
         "oh, Auntie, I'm..."
         "what's the matter with you, child?"
         " oh,Auntie, my sore toe's dead!"
         the old lady sank down into a chair and laughed a little, then cried a little, then did both together. this restored her.
         "Tom, what a turn you did give me! now you shut up that nosense and climb out of bed."
          the groans ceased and the pain vanished from the toe. the boy felt a little foolish, and he said:
          Aunt Polly, it did seem to be dead, and it hurt so I never minded my tooth at all."
         " your tooth indeed? what's the matter with your tooth?"
         " one of them is loose, and it aches awfully."
         " there, there, now, don't begin that groaning again. Open your mouth. well, your tooth is loose, but you're not going die of that. Mary, get me a silk thread, and a chunk of fire out of the kitchen."
          Tom said:" Oh, please, Auntie, don't pull it out. It doesn't hurt anymore. please don't , Aunti. I don't want to stay home from school."
        " oh, you don't , don't you? so all this row was because you thought you'd get to stay home from school and go fishing? Tom, Tom, I love you so, and you seem to try every way you can break my old heart with you outrageousness."
      " by this time the dental instruments were ready. the old lady made one end of the sild thread fast to Tom's tooth with a loop and suddenly thrust it almost into the boy's face. the tooth hung dangling by the bedpost, now.
       but all trials bring their compensations. as Tom went to school after breakfast, he was the envy of every boy he met because the gap in his upper row of teeth enable him to spit in a new and admirable way.
        shortly Tom came upon the young villain of the village, Huckleberrt Finn, the son of the town drunk. Huckleberry was hated and dreaded by all the mothers of the town, because he was idle, lawless, vulgar and bad, and because all their children admired him, delighted in his forbidden society, and wished they dared to be like him. like the rest of the respectable boys, Tom envied huckleberry his showy refugee condition and was under strict orders not play with him. so he plated with him every time he got a chance.
        Huckleberry was always dressed like a scarecrow. he came and went at his own free will. he did not have to go to school or to church, or call anyone master or obey anybody. he could go fishing or swimming when and where he chose. Nobody stopped him from fighting. he was always the first boy that went bare foot in the sprig and the last to resume leather in fall. he never had to wash, or put on clean clothes. he could swear wonderfully. in a word, everything that goes to make life precious for a boy. so thought every troubled. bothered, respectable boy in St petersburg.
        Tom hailed the romantic outcast:
         "hello, huckleberry!"
         " hello, yourself."
         "what's that you're got?"
        " dead cat."
        "Let me see it, Huck. my, it's pretty stiff. say, what are dead cats good for, Huck?" 
        " good for? to cure warts with."
        " how do you cure them with dead cats?"
        " why, you take your cat and go and get in the graveyard along about midnight when someone that was wicked has been buried. and when it's midnight a devil will come, or maybe two or three, but you can't see them, you can only hear something like the wind, or maybe hear them talk. and when they're taking that fellow away, you heave your cat after them and say, ' devil, follow devil; warts, follow cat; I'm done with you!" that will get rid of any wart."
         " sounds right. did you ever try it, Huck?"
     " well, I guess it's so, then. Because they say she's a witch . say, Huck, when are you going to try the cat?"
  Tonight. I bet they'll come after old Hoss williams tonight."
   "But they buried him Saturday. Didn't they get him Saturday night?"
   " Why, how you talk! How could their charms work till midnight? And then it's Sunday. Devils don't move around much on a Sunday."
    "I never thought of that. That's so. Let me go with you?"
    " Of course, if you aren't afraid."
   " Afraid? that's not likely. Will you meow?"
  " Yes, and you meow back, if you get a chance. Last time, you kept me meowing around till old Hays went to torowing rocks at me and said 'Darn that cat!' and so I hove a brick through his window. But don't you tell."
   " I won't. I couldn't meow that night because Auntie was watching me, but I'll meow this time."
  Tom noticed Huckleberry was also carrying a bug, probably the first of the season. After a little discussion, Tom exchanged his recently extracted tooth for huck's bug and both boys walked away, each feeling weathier than before.
  when Tom reached the little isolated frame schoolhouse, he strode stride in briskly, with the manner of one who had come with all honest speed. he hung his hat on a peg, and flung himself into his seat with businesslike speed. the master was dozing, lulled by the drowsy hum of study. the interruption roused him.
  " Thomas Sawyer!"
  Tom knew that when his name was pronounced in full, it meant trouble.
  "Sir!"
  "Come up here. Now, sir, why are you late again, as usual?"
  Tom was about to lie, when he saw two long tails of yellow hair hanging down a back that he recognized by the electric sympathy of love, and by that form was the only vacant place on the girls' side of the schoolhouse.
  He instantly said:
  "I stopped to talk with Huckleberry Finn!"
  The master's pulse stood still, and he stared helplessly. the buzz of study ceased. the pupils wondered if this crazy boy had lost his mind. the master said:
     "You..., you did what?"
  "Stopped to talk with Huckleberry Finn."
  There was no mistaking the words.
  " Thomas  Sawyer, this is the most astounding confession i have ever listened to. No mere switch will answer for this offense.Take off your jacket."
   the master's arm performed until it was tired and the stock of switch notably diminished. then the order followed:" Now, sir, go and sit with the girls! and let this be a warning to you."
  The laughter that went around the room appear to shame the boy, but in reality that result was caused rather more by his worshipful awe of this unknown idol and the dread pleasure that lay in his high good fortune. 
  He sat down upon the end of the pine bench and the girl hitched herself away from him with a toss of her head. Nudges and winks and whispers traversed the room, but Tom sat still, and seemed to study his book.
  By and by attention ceased from him, and the accustom school murmur arose upon the dull air once more.
  Presently the boy began to steal secret glances at the girl. she observed it, and gave him the back of her head for the space of a minute. when she cautiously faced around again, a peach lay before her. she thrust it away. Tom gently put it back. She thrust it away again, but with less anger. Tom patiently returned it to its place. Then she let it remain. Tom scrawled  on his slate, "Please take it. I've got more." The girl glanced at the words, but make no sign.
  Now the boy began to draw something on the slate, hiding his work with his left hand. For a time the girl refused to notice, but at last she gave in and hesitatingly whispered:
  "Let me see it."
  Tom partly uncovered a dismal caricature of a house with two gable ends to it and a corkscrew of smoke issuing from the chimney. then the girl's interest began to fasten itself upon the work and she forgot evertything else. When it was finished, she gazed a moment , then whispered:
  "It's nice; make a man."
  The artist erected a man who resembled a derrick in the front yard. He could have stepped over the house. But the girl was not critical. She was satisfied with the monster, and whispered:
  "It's a beautiful man. Now make me coming along."
  Tom drew an hourglass with a full moon and straw limbs to it and armed the spreading fingers with a big fan. the girl said:
  " It's ever so nice. I wish I could draw."
  "It's easy," whispered Tom." I'll teach you."
  "oh, will you? When?"
  " At noon. Do you go home to dinner?"
  " I'll stay if You will."
  "Good. What's your name?"
  " Becky Thatcher. What's yours? Oh, I know. It's Thomas Sawyer."
  "That's the name they lick me by. I'm Tom when I'm good. You call me Tom, will you?"
  "Yes."
  Now Tom began to scrawl something on the slate, hiding the words from the girl. but she was not backward this time. she begged to see. Tom said:
  " Oh, it isn't anything."
  " Yes, it is."
  No. it isn't. You don't want to see."
  Yes, I do. Indeed I do. please Let me."
  "You'll tell."
  "No, I won't. Indeed I won't."
  "You won't tell anybody at all?ever, as long as you live?"
  "No, I won't tell anybody, ever. Now let me see."
  "Oh, you don't want to see!"
  "Now that you treat me so, I will see." and she put her small hand upon his and a little scuffle ensued. Tom pretended to resist in earnest but letting his hand slip by degrees till these words were revealed:" I love you."
  "Oh, you bad thing!" And she hit his hand, but reddened and looked pleased nevertheless.
  Just at this moment a finger and thumb closed on his ear and raised him to his feet. he was led across the schoolroom and set down in his own seat,  under a loud fire of giggle from the whole school. then the master stood over him during a few awful moments, and finally moved away to this throne without saying a word. but although Tom's ear hurt, his heart was joyful.
  the harder Tom tried to fasten his mind on his book, the more his ideas wandered. in turn he took his place in the reading class and made a terrible job of it. then in the geography class he turned lakes into mountains, mountains into rivers, and rivers into continents. then in the speling class he missed a succession of mere baby words.
  when school broke up at noon, Tom flew to Becky thatcher and whispered in her ear:
  " Put on your bonnet and pretend you're going home, and when you get to the corner give the rest of them the slip and turn down through the lane and come back. I'll go the other way and do the same thing."
  So the one went off with one group of scholars, and the other with another. In a little while the two met at the bottom of the lane, and when they reached the school they had it all to themselves. then they sat together, with a slate before them, and Tom gave Becky the pencil and held her hand in his, guiding it, and so created another surprising house.
  When the interest in art began to wane, the two fell to talking. Tom was in heaven.
  " do you love rats?" he said.
  "No! I hate them!"
  " well, I do, too... live ones. but I mean dead ones, to swing around your head with a string ."
  "No, I don't care for rats much, anyway. what I like is chewing gum."
  "Oh, I should say so. I wish I had some now."
  " do you? I've got some. I'll let you chew it awhile, but you must give it back to me."Backy said.
  that was agreeable, so they chewed it in turn, and dangled their legs against the bench in an excess of contentment.
  "were you ever at a circus?" said Tom.
  "Yes, my father's going to take me again sometime, if I'm good."
  "I've been to circus lots of times. I'm going to be a clown when I grown up!"Tom said.
  "Oh, are you?that will be nice. they're so lovely all spotted up."said Becky.
  "Yes, that's so. and they get a lot of money, almost a dollar a day, Ben Rogers says . say, Becky were you ever engaged?"
  " what's that?"Becky asked.
  "why, engaged to be married."
  "No."
  " would you like to?"Tom asked.
  "I guess so. I don't know. what's it like?"
  "like? why it isn't like anything. You only tell a boy you won't ever have anybody but him, ever, and then you kiss and  that's all. anybody can do it."
  "Kiss? what do you kiss for?" Becky wanted to know.
  "why, that, you know is to - , well, they always do that."
  "everybody?"
  "why, yes, everybody, that's in love with each other. do you remember what I wrote on the slate?" Tom asked.
  "Yes."
  "what was it?"
  "I won't tell you."
  "Shall I tell you?"
  "Yes, but some other time." Becky was suddenly reluctant.
  " No,now." 
  " No, not now. Tomorrow."
  she was firm.
  "Oh, now, now, please, Becky. I'll whisper it, I'll whisper it ever so quietly."
  Becky hesitated. Tom took silence for consent and passed his arm about her waist and whispered the tale ever so softly, with his mouth close to her ear.
  And then he added:
  "now you whisper it to me... just the same."
  she resisted for a while and then said:
  "you turn your face away, so you can't see, and then I will. but you must not ever tell anybody, will you Tom? Now, you won't, will you?"
  "Indeed I won't . Now, Becky."
  He turned his face away. she bent timidly around till her breath stirred his curls and whispered, " I - love - you."
  Then she sprang away and ran around and around the desks and benches, with Tom after her, and took refuge in a corner at last, with her little white apron to her face. Tom clasped her about her neck and pleaded: " Now Becky, it's all done, all over but the kiss. Don't you be afraid of that. It isn't anything at all. Please, Becky."
  And he tugged at her apron and her hands.
  By and by she gave up, and let her hands drop. her face, all glowing with the struggle, came up and submitted.
  Tom kissed the red lips and said: " Now it's all done, Becky. and always after this, you know, you must never love anybody but me, never never and forever. will you?"
  "No, I'll never love anybody but you, Tom, and I'll never tell anybody but you. and you aren't to ever tell anybody but me, either."
  "Certainly. of course. that's part of it. and always coming to school or when we're going home, you're to walk with me, when there isn't anybody looking. and you choose me and I choose you at parties, because that's the way you do when you're engaged."
  It's ever so nice. I never heard of it before."
  "Oh, it's ever so gay! why, Amy Lawrence and I ..."
  The big eyes told Tom of his blunder and he stopped, confused.
  "Oh, Tom! then I'm not the first you're ever been engaged to!"
  The child began to cry.
  "Oh, don't cry, Becky. I don't care for her any more."
  "Yes, you do, Tom, you know you do."
  Tom tried to put his arm about her neck, but she pushed him away and turned her face to the wall and went on crying. Tom tried again, with soothing words in his mouth, and was turned away again.
  Then his pride was up, and he strode away and went outside . he stood about , restless and uneasy, hoping she would feel sorry and come to find him. But she didn't. Then he began to feel badly and fear that he was in the wrong. It was a hard struggle with him to make new advances, now , but he nerved himself to it and went back.
  She was still sobbing with her and stood a moment, not knowing exactly how to proceed. Then he said hesitatingly:
  " Becky, I don't care for anyone but you." he tried to get her to respond and even offered her his best jewel, a brass knob from the top of an andiron. when she threw it to the floor, and Tom marched out of the house and far away returned to school no more that day.
4.Further Aduentures and Winning Becky Back.
  That night Tom and Huckleberry Finn snuck out to the gravery. while they were waiting, they heard voices. hiding, they saw young Doctor Robinson, Muff potter and Indian Joe. Muff Potter was partly drunk. the three men began digging up one of the graves. when the grave was dug up, Muff Potter and Indian Joe lifted up a body tied in clotth and rope from the grave.
  Then Indian Joe and doctor got an argument. the doctor hit Indian Joe, and Muff Potter hit the doctor. while Muff and the doctor were fighting, Indian Joe waited for an opening.
  When the doctor knocked Muff out with one of the wooden grave markers, Indian Joe stabbed the doctor. when Muff Potter woke up, Indian Joe made Muff believe he had done it. Potter was so drunk that he wasn't sure if he had or not. at first the boys hadn't heard Indian Joe trick Muff Potter, so they just promised not to tell anybody what they'd seen. they were afraid Indian Joe would kill them!
  Tom returned to his regular routine, but Becky still would't speak to him. In the meantime, the doctor's body was found and so was the other body that had been in the grave. Because of his strange acting and some other clues, Muff Potter arrested and charged with the murder. In court, Indian Joe told the story he had told to Muff Potter, and even Muff himself believed he'd killed the doctor and been too drunk to know it.
   Tom and Huckleberry were both at the trial, and Tom couldn't take the guilty feeling. he told exactly what he and Huck had seen in the graveyard that night. when he got to the part where Indian Joe had killed the doctor , Indian joe jumped out ot the courthouse windows and ran away.
  Tom and Huck were very careful after that, but after a few weeks it seemed that Indian Joe had left that part of the countrt for good.Tom's thoughts wer again filled with how he could win Becky back.
  The schoolmaster always kept a special book in his desk,filled with classical stories.  He had always wanted to be a college teacher. that book was special to him.
  One day the teacher left the room at recess and Becky saw a chance to look at the book. while she was looking at the book, Tom surprised her. looking up quickly, she accidentally tore a page in the book.
  She was angry with Tom and afraid because she had never been whipped in school. Tom was still angry with her too, for not letting him explain and get back together with her. he was going to let her take her punishment, but later, when the school teacher saw the torn page and started calling on students, Tom saw how scared Becky was. 
  when the teacher called Becky's name, Tom suddenly told the teacher he had torn the page. The teacher beat Tom worse than he had ever beaten any student, but Tom didn't care. It was clear from Becky's face that she was in love with Tom again. she called him noble.
  Shortly after, Becky's mother agreed to hold a special picnic for the children. they joined a group of children and adults exploring an old cave by Cardiff Hill.
  Becky and Tom wander farther from the others and shared a cake Becky had brought, saying it was their wedding cake. soon they found they had wandered into a part of the cave no one else had ever been to. they were lost!
  While they were wondering how to get out, Huckleberry Finn saw Indian Joe with a new partner sneaking around the Widow and Judge Thatcher, who was at the widow's with other men from the city to attend the picnic, games and ice cream the widow had been helping with, kept men around to protect the widow. But all the worry about the trial and Indian Joe had given Huck a mild fever, and he had to stay at the widow's to get better.
  Back in the cave, Tom used last piece of candle to explore in a new direction, and saw Indian Joe. fortunately, Indian Joe was hiding and had not seen him.
  Tom ran in another direction. he felt air and found the way out. he got Becky and  they stumbled out the new entrance and down to the river landing .
  a rescue party that had been sent for them found them. while Becky and Tom wer recovering from their night in the cave, the judge told Tom he had sealed entrance and found Indian Joe's body.
  Later, when Huck was better, Tom and Huckleberry went to Tom's secret entrance to the cave and explored the area where Indian Joe had been hidden. they found a hidden pit in the cave, where Indian Joe had hidden the money he had stolen from the grave he and Muff Potter had robbed. there was $12000 in gold!
  The widow Douglas had earlier offered to give Huckleberry a home because his father wasn't around, and now Judge Thatcher agreed to divide the money between the boys a dollar a day in interest.
  Tom was happy because he could use the cave for a hiding place to play robbers with the boys.
  as for how this boy grew up and what became of him when he became a man, those stories are for another book, this one being simply the story of a boy.


